[EDU-3855] work with node services variables (#653)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/deploy-journey/work-with-variables/work-with-variables.mdx

---
title: Work with variables
description: aaa
meta_tags: deploy, orchestrator
namespace: docs_deploy_work_with_variables
menu_namespace: deployMenu
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/deploy/work-with-variables/
---

> During the deployment process on Edge Orchestrator, we have the possibility to work with variables. A variable can be set on an [edge service](#edge-services-variables) and on an [edge node](#edge-node).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the deployment process on **Edge Orchestrator**, you can work with variables. A variable can be set on an [edge service](#edge-services-variables) and an [edge node](#edge-node).
```

Reviewer: A variable can be set on an [edge service](#edge-services-variables) or an [edge node](#edge-node).
OU
 A variable can be set on an [edge service](#edge-services-variables) and an [edge node](#edge-node).

Author: and @MarianaAguilera

:::note

> The priority is always the edge node variable. So, if you have a variable configured on an edge service and the same variable configured on an edge node, the one on the node will override the one configured on the edge service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The edge node variable always has priority. So, if you have a variable configured on an edge service and the same variable configured on an edge node, the one on the node will override the one configured on the edge service.
```

:::

You can create edge node and edge services variables using:

> - [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-access-rtm/)
> - [Azion API](https://api.azion.com/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](#via-rtm)
- [Azion API](#via-api)
```

---

> ## Edge Services variables 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating Edge Services variables 
```

### Via RTM 

1. Go to [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-access-rtm/) > **Edge Libraries** > **Edge Services**.
2. Select the edge service to which you want to add a variable.
3. Go to the **Environment** tab.

> 5. Add the following variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Add the following variable:
```

```bash 
name=azion
```

> 6. Click the **Save** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click the **Save** button.
```

4. Enter the filepath of the resource.
5. Choose the type **Text**.
6. Add the following content to the content block: 

```bash 
I am using {{name}} edge orchestrator
```

### Via API 

1. Run the following `LIST` request in your terminal, replacing `[TOKEN VALUE]` with your [personal token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/) and retrieve the edge service ID to which you wish to add a variable:

```bash 
curl --location 'https://api.azionapi.net/edge_services/' \
--header 'Accept: application/json; version=3' \
--header 'Authorization: Token [TOKEN VALUE]'
```

2. Create a variable related to the service. Run the following `PATCH` request in your terminal, replacing `[TOKEN VALUE]` with your [personal token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/) and informing the variable's name and value:

```bash
curl --location --request PATCH 'https://api.azionapi.net/edge_services/:id' \
--header 'Accept: application/json; version=3' \
--header 'Authorization: Token [TOKEN VALUE]' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
  "active": true,
  "name": "service",
  "variables": [
    {
      "name": "name",
      "value": "azion"
    }
  ]
}'
```

> Now, you've created a variable, related to a specific service. You need to access this variable through a resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you've created a variable related to a specific service. You need to access this variable through a resource.
```

3. Create a resource that will use the variable. Run the following `POST` request in your terminal, replacing `[TOKEN VALUE]` with your [personal token](/en/documentation/products/guides/personal-tokens/), `:id` with the ID of the edge service and informing the following parameters in the request body:

Request body properties: 

| Property | Description | Required | 
| - | - | - | 
| `content_type` | Content type of the resource being created | Yes |
| `name` | Name of the resource being created | Yes |
| `content` | Content that defines actions performed when the resource state changes in the edge node | Yes |

```bash 
curl --location 'https://api.azionapi.net/edge_services/:id/resources' \
--header 'Accept: application/json; version=3' \
--header 'Authorization: Token [TOKEN VALUE]' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
  "content_type": "Text",
  "name": "/resource",
  "content": "I am using {{name}} edge orchestrator"
}'
```

---

> ## Edge Node 

Author: ```suggestion
## Edge Node variables
```

### Via RTM 

1. Go to [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-access-rtm/) > **Edge Nodes**.
2. Select the edge node to which you want to add a variable.
3. Go to the **Services** tab.
4. Choose the service to which you want to apply the variable.
5. Add the following content to the variables block: 

```bash 
name=azion
```

6. Click the **Save** button.

> Now, you've created a variable, related to a specific node. You need to access this variable through a resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you've created a variable related to a specific node. You need to access this variable through a resource.
```
